THE USURIOUS LOANS ACT, 1918
ACT NO. 10 OF 1918
[22nd March, 1918]

1. Short title and extent.
(1) This Act may be called the Usurious Loans Act, 1918.
(3) The State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, direct that it shall not apply to any area, class of persons, or class of transactions which it may specify in its notification.

2. Definitions.
(1) "Interest" means rate of interest and includes the return to be made over and above what was actually lent, whether the same is charged or sought to be recovered specifically by way of interest or otherwise.
(2) "Loan" means a loan whether of money or in kind and includes any transaction which is, in the opinion of the Court, in substance a loan.

3. Re-opening of transactions.
(1) Where, in any suit to which this Act applies, the Court has reason to believe:
(a) that the interest is excessive; and
(b) that the transaction was, as between the parties thereto, substantially unfair,
the Court may re-open the transaction, take an account between the parties, and relieve the debtor of all liability in respect of any excessive interest.

(2)(a) In this section "excessive" means in excess of that which the Court deems to be reasonable having regard to the risk incurred as it appeared, or must be taken to have appeared, to the creditor at the date of the loan.
(2)(b) In considering whether interest is excessive, the Court shall take into account any amounts charged or paid for expenses, inquiries, fines, bonuses, premia, renewals or any other charges, and if compound interest is charged, the periods at which it is calculated, and the total advantage which may reasonably be taken to have been expected from the transaction.
(2)(d) In considering whether a transaction was substantially unfair, the Court shall take into account all circumstances materially affecting the relations of the parties at the time of the loan or tending to show that the transaction was unfair, including the necessities or supposed necessities of the debtor at the time of the loan so far as the same were known, or must be taken to have been known, to the creditor.

Explanation. Interest may of itself be sufficient evidence that the transaction was substantially unfair.
